I am going to go to my project
github.com/vakil/selfie-cam,
is what I called it.
And for you all, you can go to your own
project if you have pushed it to GitHub,
and
if not we can do this in our own time
with those Git instructions earlier.
If you haven't set up a GitHub repository
before, once you've logged in and made
an account, you can go to this plus button
up here and create a new repository and
it'll walk you through the steps to
get your code up into that repository.
But in any case,
in this case I have a repository, so
let's just zoom in a little bit.
There's a settings, a tab panel,
whatever we want to call it up here,
with a whole bunch of settings,
like for example, what is it called and
what's the default branch and all this
stuff, we're not gonna go into all of it.
But there is a pages
item in the sidebar here,
and the pages page is gonna
have all kinds of settings
here that again you can read
all about at your leisure.
But what we want to be doing here,
is we want to to be, and
yours might look a little bit different
coz I have already started this up.
But what we're gonna do is we're
gonna get even fancier and
we're gonna use GitHubs built
in actions to help us deploy our
Vite site automatically when we
push new code to our main branch.
So you can choose that
option which is in data.
But there is also another option which is
that you can have a different branch like
a GH minus pages branch.
This is also common, that only when
you push to that branch, will it run,
it's kind of, it'll look for a typical
site and it'll kind of run that for you.
But in this case,
we're gonna use GitHub Actions.
So, okay.
Luckily, the Vite team
has made a handy dandy
walk through of what we
need to know in order to
deploy our Vite project as a static site.
So static site, meaning once we've
built our site with npm run build,
we essentially, if we go look in our dist,
Dist directory here,
wrong direction, okay.
We essentially just have some files.
[LAUGH] We have an HTML file.
We have some CSS and some JavaScript.
These are just static files as opposed to
a website where I also have a whole server
that is dynamically running and
responding to changes and
perhaps messing with the content
of the front end, upper monitor,
all kinds of other things
that could be happening.
In this case, we just have, it's
essentially the same thing that we were
doing before of just having a .html file,
just with a lot of fanciness of
bringing in all those modules,
bundling it all up in one minified and
optimized JavaScript file, all that stuff.
So that's what we're doing when we're
deploying a static site, is we are just
taking these files and putting them on
the interwebs somewhere, [LAUGH] So
that people can go to a URL and that'll
run a get request and that will fetch
these files and then they will run in
the browser and we will have a Selfie Cam.
Okay, so for static sites
The Vite team has given us a lovely guide,
and it also walks through
the other options for using, and
it tells us how we gotta build,
and make sure locally with preview
that things are looking okay, and so
on and so forth, and
we can change things here.
But it'll tell us also for
GitHub Pages and if you scroll down,
there's other options like GitLab Pages,
Netlify, etc.
But we'll use GitHub Pages just for
convenience.
And so it's gonna walk us through
the steps we need to follow.
Okay, so
we're gonna kind of do this together.
And if questions come up,
please let's shout them out,
coz probably other people have them too.
Okay, so we first of all
wanna set the correct base.
We said before, we want to,
since we probably, we don't have one yet,
unless you all did some
configuring ahead of the game.
We want to create a vite.config.js
file in our project.
What this might look like, and
by the way, this define config, this is
essentially just so that you can get
some helpful auto-complete from VS Code.
It's not,
you could also just have like an,
there's a whole Vite page about
the config file and everything.
But for now, we can just do this,
and then if we're in code,
we also get some helpful suggestions.
Once I start defining a config, and
I'm like, okay, what options do I have?
And it's like, well,
I know about a user config base property,
which is the base public path when
served in both development or
in either development or production.
And so the default is just slash.
So just basically, this would be
equivalent to like anjanette.dev/.
Or if we're using GitHub Pages out of the
box without configuring a custom domain,
we get a site that's vakila.github.io/.
And we're kind of barreling through this,
but
[LAUGH] So
if we are deploying to that site,
this is what GitHub Pages
refers to as a user or
project, sorry, a user or
organization site.
So for example I might have my personal
website hosted at vakila.github.io,
let's say.
And I might have a repository called
vakila.github.io in my GitHub account that
corresponds to that.
But in our case, we have something more
like a project repository, a project site,
which is where this is going to be
named something else like Selfie Cam.
And so out of the box I get
vakila.github.io/selfiecam for
this project site, if I don't configure
a custom domain or what have you.
So, what that means is that we need to set
the base to slash the name of our repo,
slash.
And for now,
that's hopefully all the config [LAUGH]
We're gonna need to do at the moment.
Because we already have supported all
of those slightly older browsers in
the production environment
with things like our Ify,
Immediately invoked Function Expression,
so that if the browser that my user
has doesn't have the fanciness
of top-level 0, 8, no probs.
Okay, and by the way, behind the scenes,
when we run npm run build,
and it's looking at all those
different browser targets.
It is doing some fancy magic to
reinterpret our JavaScript syntax
into syntax that even older browsers
would be able to interpret.
But it doesn't go that far [LAUGH] back.
Okay, so back to our guide.
All right, so now we go to that
settings page in our repository.
That Pages tab, yeah.
And this is where, wrong, this is where
we're gonna start choosing GitHub Actions.
And GitHub Actions is a whole,
is there a course about CI and CD and?
>> Yeah, Enterprise UI Development.
>> The Enterprise UI Development
course probably covers a lot of this.
GitHub Actions is essentially
a whole thing that is
[LAUGH] intended to allow us to
automate certain workflows or
certain things that happen when certain
events occur related to our repository,
for example,
when we push to a certain branch,
we want to build our site
with an npm run build which
is gonna run V-build, and
then we want to set it up to
go up onto GitHub pages and
deploy to GitHub pages.
So luckily we don't have to learn
everything about defining GitHub Actions,
jobs and workflows here today
coz the amazing V team has given
us a sample configuration file
which this is gonna be a YAML file,
that is going to, YAML is just
another type of, it's like yet
another markup language,
it's another key value.
It's an alternative to Jason in many
places, but that's what GitHub uses.
And there's a whole bunch of
stuff in here that we can, again,
go into the GitHub Pages,
GitHub Actions doc and read all about.
But suffice it to say
that it's going to create
a deploy job which GitHub
is going to run for
us according to the declaratively
provided settings.
So we can, if we're reading through
this we can see there's a few steps,
we're doing some npm installs,
some npm run builds,
we can read through all of this and
kind of familiarize ourselves to it later.
And so, and it's also based upon some
other kind of out-of-the-box actions that
GitHub provides to make it
easier to work with pages.
Anyway, we don't need to
know all of this right now.
We need to know that we're
telling it to do this thing on,
almost like an event listener,
a push to the main branch.
That's when this whole
deploy job is gonna run.
But for our intents and purposes,
we just press this copy button right here.
[LAUGH] And we go into pages.
Sorry, we make sure that our
GitHub Actions is selected here.
And then we'll notice we
also have Actions tab.
And if you, so probably when you have for
the first time selected GitHub Actions,
I think it had a little wizard, but if
you ever want to go define a new Action,
you can go to this Actions tab and you can
see all of the fun things that I've had.
We can create a new workflow, and
it'll give me a whole bunch of options,
and
I can walk through this kind
of these wizards and whatever,
or I can just create a something.yaml
file within a special directory
in my project called .github/workflows/.
And so here's where I can put
a file like deploy GitHub Pages or
something like that,
deploy pages maybe, whatever,
deploy site, make it go,
whatever you want to call it.
And that's where I can paste all of
my [LAUGH] fabulously Pre-configured,
thank you, V team, job.
And true, we can tweak this,
we can do whatever.
So for example, in my Selfie Cam,
yes, I want to discard these
pages coz if you go look at my repo,
github.com/vakila/selfie-cam,
you will see there is already
this .github/workflows with
the deploypages.yaml file that is
essentially what we all want to have now.
And it's the same content
copy-pasted from the v-config.